# NixOS Configuration

This repository contains my personal NixOS configuration, including various system settings, package definitions, and configurations for Neovim and other utilities.

## Folder Structure

- `flake.nix`: The entry point for the NixOS system configuration and package management.
- `flake.lock`: A lock file generated by `nix flake update`, ensuring reproducible builds.
- `hosts/`: Contains configuration for specific hosts (e.g., machine-specific settings).
- `modules/`: Custom NixOS modules for adding additional functionality, namely most of them are just abstraction of a group of packages.
- `pkgs/`: Custom package definitions and overlays.
- `resources/`: Static resources used by the system configuration (e.g., wallpapers, scripts).
- `LICENSE`: The license under which this configuration is shared.
- `README.md`: This file, providing an overview of the repository.

## Usage

To apply this NixOS configuration to your system, follow these steps:

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/contini-aron/nixos-conf.git
cd nixos-conf
```

### 2. Build and Apply the Configuration

Replace `default` with your actual hostname (matching a file under `hosts/`), or keep `default` if applicable.

```bash
sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake ./nixos-conf#default --impure
```

> **Note:** The `--impure` flag is required to include the autogenerated hardware configuration located at `/etc/nixos/hardware-configuration.nix`, which is not managed by the flake.


## Running the Neovim Configuration Standalone

Neovim configuration can be run independently without the need to apply the full NixOS system configuration. To do so, you can use the `nix run` command. 

1. Ensure you have Nix installed and configured with [flakes](https://nixos.wiki/wiki/Flakes) enabled.
2. Run the following command to start Neovim with my configuration:

```bash
nix run github:contini-aron/nixos-conf#neovim-conf
```

This will install and launch Neovim with all the plugins and settings from my personal config.

## License

This configuration is released under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

